
Includes routines for the uniform term ADT which rely on the operator ADT as
well. 

Scott Dietzen, Thu Jul  9 15:02:50 1987

The majority of the routines manufacture the leaf terms used by the SB (and
it's clients) under the term ADT. 


The following take the arguments you would expect (symbols for id, literal, and
keyword; numbers for number; strings for cid and string) and produce terms of
that type.  Ths "is-" prefixed routines discriminate those terms from arbitrary
lisp values.  The "ds-" routines return the arguments used in constructing the
term. 

	  mk-id is-id ds-id 
	  mk-cid is-cid ds-cid 
	  mk-number is-number ds-number 
	  mk-string is-string ds-string 
	  mk-literal is-literal ds-literal 
	  mk-keyword is-keyword ds-keyword 

Because the user may add other leaf term types (i.e. lexical terminals to the
grammars), generic leaf routines are necessary:

	  mk-leaf-term is-leaf-term leaf-term-kind leaf-term-value.

Mk-leaf-term takes two arguments:
	  kind -- which should be a keyword (e.g. :id, :cid, :num) used to
		  identify the type
	  value -- arbitrary lisp value. 




Standard terms for internal tree nodes are built by 

	  mk-sim-term : symbol , term*  -> term

which makes an operator from symbol and then a term from the operator and sons.
Auxiliary routines include 

	  is-sim-term   sim-term-op 

but not sim-term-args as that would just duplicate term-args. 




Other functions: 	

	term-equal(t1,t2)
		-- Are t1 and t2 equivalent?

	search-list-for-term(term*, funct: term --> bool)
		-- Return the first term of list such that funct is true.
	
	search-list-for-term-with-subterm(term*, funct: term --> bool, n)
		-- Return the first term of list such that
		   funct(term-argn(t,n)) is true. 
		

	is-op(op, term)  
		-- If term-op(term) = op return term (nil otherwise).

	ck-term(funct, term)
		-- Signal an error if not (funct term), otherwise return term.
	
	ck-term-op(op, term)
		-- Signal an error if not (is-op op term), otherwise return
		   term. 
	
	is-sop(symbol, term)
		-- If term has a simple operator which is eq to symbol, return
		   term. 

	ck-term-sop(symbol term)
		-- If not (is-sop symbol term) signal an error, otherwise
		   return term.

	memq-sop(term symbol*)
		-- Is the symbol operator of term a member of symbol*?

 
